welcome to the man of recaps this is the
flash season one
meet barry allen the brilliant
mild-mannered csi tech when he was a kid
his mom was murdered by these mysterious
flashes of light and because that's
crazy of course his dad went away for it
so all these years he's secretly been
working to solve his mom's murder and
prove his dad's innocence star labs is
celebrating the launch of their new
particle accelerator created by the
genius harrison wells but something goes
wrong it explodes and that night berry's
struck by lightning
and that was no normal lightning bolt
because barry now has boom
yeah he's got super speed he works with
starlab's team to figure out his powers
there's cisco ramone the funny guy
genius mechanical engineer dr caitlin
snow super nice biochem and of course
the man harrison wells himself who's in
a wheelchair now he was paralyzed the
night of the explosion so with their
help barry figures out his powers and he
becomes the flash
the fastest man alive but barry's not
the only one who got powers that night
there's a whole rogues gallery of
one-off villains who have powers
depending on where they were when the
wave hit they call these people meta
humans and cisco's got a funny
supervillain name for everyone to be
able to control the weather like that
indoors you'd have to be a weather
wizard
so with his science team in his ear
piece barry figures out ways to use his
speed to take down all sorts of
meta-human threats hilariously no matter
the situation the solution is always run
faster
a normal prison can't hold these men of
humans so they keep them locked up in
the pipeline under star labs besides
this being a gross violation of their
constitutional rights it also raises
practical questions like who's feeding
them and where do they poop
now barry has a crush on iris west
daughter of detective joe west who took
barry in after his mom's murder so
basically barry has a crush on his
step-sister
no that's not weird she has a boyfriend
right now anyway this hot cop eddie but
she wants to be a journalist and she's
real interested in this new superhero
they're calling the streak so she starts
up her own blog and gives him the much
better name of the flash whenever he
talks to her he does a silly blurry face
to hide his identity which is kind of
pointless because barry's really bad at
hiding his identity
so many people find out and by the end
of this season iris is finally in on it
too among the infinite one-off
meta-human threats is barry's first
nemesis the non-metahuman genius
criminal
leonard snart when he steals a freeze
ray that cisco made he becomes captain
cold and yes the cold gun
slows the flash down pretty soon he gets
his friend mcrory a fire gun
obviously he also has a sister who gets
a golden gun and this show is
hilariously campy
give me another one ice cold
another recurring villain is the giant
genius gorilla grodd he shows up once
per season another big plot this season
is caitlyn snow's fiance robbie who died
the night of the particle accelerator
explosion but another scientist who was
there dr martin stein was holding a
science thing and robbie's essence got
blown into him they combined into one
person with firepowers called firestorm
long story short they're able to
separate them so caitlyn's reunited with
her love but it's only temporary they
have to refuse and go off to do
firestorm stuff but now the main villain
of season one is another speedster he's
all in yellow and introduces himself as
the reverse flash now that barry knows
what a speedster is it's super obvious
that this is the guy who killed his mom
barry can't defeat him though the
reverse flash is much faster as it turns
out harrison wells has a secret
he is not actually paralyzed he's been
faking and in a super secret sci-fi man
cave he's got a newspaper clipping from
the future and
we find out almost immediately he is the
reverse flash one day cisco stumbles
upon his secret and this is
heart-wrenching because dr wells was
cisco's like best friend and mentor but
turns out this guy's not harrison wells
at all
his name is eobard thawne he is the
reverse flash the flash's arch nemesis
from the future he and the flash
traveled back through time during one of
their standard speedster fights it was
that night he killed barry's mom but
when he went to leave oh his powers had
been drained he got trapped back in our
time
the real harrison wells was a good guy
but eobard thon with some future tech oh
stole his identity using tachyons he's
able to restore his speed but only for
quick bursts so to get home he needed to
cause the particle accelerator explosion
that created the flash
then train him and how to go faster so
he could go fast enough to open a time
portal and he could get home i'm sorry
cisco i really do like you you're like a
son to me but i'm an evil sociopath
oh vibrating hand and oh speedster
through the heart
elsewhere that same day barry tells iris
how he feels about her and these two
have their passionate kiss
but the metahuman threat of the week is
sending a title wave at central city and
to stop it
berries you guessed it gotta run fast in
fact he runs so fast it's the first time
he whoa
travels through time yes there's a lot
of time travel shenanigans on the show
we're just getting started so with his
knowledge of the future barry catches
the weather wizard immediately changing
the course of the day cisco never finds
out weld's secret and this time when
barry confesses his love for iris the
whole situation's different she's like
ew you're like my brother and i'm dating
someone not cool barry soon though even
in this new timeline they start to
suspect harrison wells and the gang
stumbles across his secret science man
cave from the newspaper headline barry
learns that in a few years he will die
in the crisis more on that later also
the article was written by iris west
allen hey he and iris do get together so
now eobard thon knows they're on to him
so he kidnaps iris's boyfriend eddie
what does he want with eddie turns out
eddie's last name is thon yeah he is ia
bard's great-great-grandfather so to
stop the reverse flash barry gets help
from an old friend it is oliver queen
the green arrow
founder of the cw aeroverse he gives
barry some real helpful training like
yeah kid you're fast but you gotta be
aware of your surroundings a sneak
attack can still take down a speedster
and so it's a crossover episode where
the green arrow uses sneak attack to
take down reverse flash sothon tells
barry the whole backstory he told cisco
and the day that never happened and it's
like yo kid if you open a time portal
for me i'll go back to my own time be
out of your hair
and more than that you can use it to go
back to the night your mom was killed
and save her
so barry agrees and thon teaches him how
to open a time portal which is basically
run real fast if you run fast enough wow
you enter the speed force more on that
later so poof barry's traveled back to
his childhood home the night his mom was
killed
his future self is there fighting the
reverse flash but he sees our barry and
he's like no
don't do it so he carries kid berry away
and thon goes to stab his mom but very
trust his future self and lets it happen
at least this time he gets to say
goodbye it's a tearful moment
but back in the present the time
portal's open and thon's going to use
his time machine to go through it but
now barry's back boom breaks the time
machine he figures since i didn't get to
save my mom our deals off and it's time
for the final speedster fight
the reverse flash is about to win when
oh a shot rings out but wait who was hit
it was eddie who shot himself no eddie
yes made the ultimate sacrifice azthon's
descendant when he's dead oh he phase
out of existence
but now for science reasons the time
portal destabilizes
and turns into a black hole that
threatens to suck up the whole earth for
more science reasons barry can close it
but to do that he's gonna have to
you guessed it run really fast and
that's how season one of the flash comes
to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you'd
love this recap check out the join
button and support the channel as a
member